in your time in the mafia what did you
witness I'm going to be honest with you
we're bringing in $910 million a week I
was arrested 18 times and I saw guys
that died for the wrong reasons but I'll
tell you one thing Steve you're not
going to want to hear this but it's the
truth Michael Fran one of the highest
earning mafia members turned
motivational speaker who is sharing the
ruthless lessons he learned about
business leadership and resilience so
there's two levels in that life you're
either a racketeer or you're a gangster
and I was a racketeer meaning was
elevating the family by making them
money I had 18 companies defrauding the
government out of tax bringing in $10
million a week was living a liftime in a
jet playing at helicopter what was the
most cash you ever saw 40 50 million in
cash in cash now you can learn so much
from the mafia you know I give you an
example the art of negotiation this is a
tremendous technique to get what you
want I always want so here's what you
have to do now you may be making all
this money but we have rules and you
don't violate the rules because the
consequences are severe was a that had
to kill his father and then a very dear
friend of mine he did something that was
total violation of our life and he ended
up getting killed but the one thing that
really hurt me bad my dad had a powerful
position in the mafia and he betrayed me
that was rough Steve the thing is I've
done a lot of bad things in my life but
it's not the path that I wanted to take
I realized I got to get away from this
like you don't walk away from this life
we're not allowed to do that when does
it all come crashing down for you
this is a sentence I never thought I'd
say in my life um we've just hit 7
million subscribers on YouTube and I
want to say a huge thank you to all of
you that show up here every Monday and
Thursday to watch our conversations um
from the bottom of my heart but also on
behalf of my team who you don't always
get to meet there's almost 50 people now
behind the dire of a CEO that work to
put this together so from all of us
thank you so much um we did a raffle
last month and we gave away prizes for
people that subscribed to the show up
until 7 million sub subscribers and you
guys love that raffle so much that we're
going to continue it so every single
month we're giving away money can't buy
prizes including meetings with me
invites to our events and ,000 gift
vouchers to anyone that subscribes to
the DI SE there's now more than 7
million of you so if you make the
decision to subscribe today you can be
one of those lucky people thank you from
the bottom of my heart let's get to the
[Music]
conversation
Michael who were you
who was
I interesting question I
um you know I have to start with this
because you you just came right off the
bat and asked me a question
that I don't want to say stumped me but
maybe in a way did in the same way that
Jordan Peterson did I'll tell you why
Jordan said to me he said Michael you
spent 20 years in that life obviously
you did some things that were not good I
said yeah
he well how'd you do that and I said you
know Jordan when I had to do something
that I was uncomfortable with I kind of
stepped out of myself I believe took
care of business and then stepped back
in so he looked to me and he said well
how do you know who the real Michael is
the guy that stepped out or the guy
that's sitting here in front of me
now I that's a good question Jordan I
said
but uh I've been this guy for the last
almost 30 years so hopefully this is the
guy so you know who am I I mean I'm a
guy that
uh you know at a point in time in my
life I was I was on the right track love
my dad very much and as result of that I
followed him into this life to try to
help him out he had a 50-year prison
sentence and I thought the only way to
help him and he thought the same was to
really get on the street and do some of
the work that was necessary to try to
overturn a conviction that he got
wrongful conviction by the way so I
became that other guy that was able to I
was going to be a doctor I was my I was
a Premed student when my dad got this
50-year
sentence so um but then I just I mean I
fell into that life and I I thought I
did a pretty good job while I was there
and I acclimated to it pretty pretty you
know
easily when someone thinks about you
joining the mafia they assume assume
that your home life must have been a
certain way you must have had a really
really rough up early upbringing is that
the case you know um I had a very strict
mother I mean she was 16 when I was
born and we had a very turbulent life
because of my father's involvement in
that life my father was an extremely
high-profile guy at that time major
Target of law enforcement so from the
time I was four or five years old my dad
was in and out of jail going on trial
and we lot of a lot of turbulence police
around us all the time so I witnessed
all that was part of that I don't know
if that contributed
to you know who I am now I I don't know
I
mean but it certainly I mean it had an
effect on me at that point in time I
hated the police I hated the government
I hated anything about law enforcement
because I saw them as the enemy the way
they you know were harassing my dad
harassing my family at least in my view
at that point so it did shape you know
my my world view of those people at that
time and they were parked outside your
house I read they uh we had six or seven
different agencies parked around our
house and every time we left there was a
parade of law enforcement Vehicles
following us I mean it was that severe
with my dad uh I've never seen anything
like that quite honestly you know other
people have had surveillance but I guess
because I grew up and I witnessed I was
part of it but it was so intense with
him it really was did you know why they
were there and did you know what your
dad was doing you know it was hard not
to although he never sat down with me
and said to me this is what I'm all
about it was B basically from other
people from what I read and what I
witnessed um so yeah I mean I knew what
he was about but I thought it was a good
thing you know CU you know his his his
friends came to the house to me they
were like Uncle Joe Uncle this Uncle
that good people you know we'd go out
together so I thought it was a good good
thing at that time what was he about my
dad yeah yeah very charismatic guy you
know a good father I mean he wanted the
best for me he didn't want me in this
life originally wanted me to go to
school be a doctor get an education stay
off the street that was his initial
desire for
me um he was a good husband to my mother
I thought at that time but you know he
had that other side of him that once or
twice growing up up I kind of witnessed
and I saw there was something else you
know with it what did you witness you
know I'll never forget uh it was really
two things that that happened I was he
was taking me up my my dad was involved
in the music business so he was taking
me into Manhattan to meet with some of
the people you know just his daily work
and along the way he had to stop and he
had to meet with somebody and I was in
the car and two of his guys that I knew
very well with with my dad they were
talking to this guy in a convers ation
got very heated and I see my dad really
angry never saw him like that before and
uh Steve I'm I'm not kidding at least
this was a kid's impression I was young
he just picked that guy up by like his
throat and had him up against the wall
and I saw the guy was horror strick and
I I didn't I never saw my dad like that
before cuz he didn't he didn't hit us or
anything as kids you know had brothers
and sisters he didn't treat us that my
mom was tough my mom forget it she
didn't spare the Rob but my my dad was
not so to see him like that I said wow
there is really another side of him you
know Street side of him you said there
was another experience another
experience this was it was kind of funny
but in a way it wasn't we had a
carpenter that was working in our house
and he was kind of a his name was S I
never forget a big guy huge guy and uh
he would never finish anything on time
the carpentry my dad would hire him
because he probably didn't have to pay
him much right and my mom was always on
him you know guy that comes he don't
finish the job and all that and came to
the house once and my dad just just went
off on him punched him like in the house
and knocked the guy out you know in
front of all of us we were kind of
surprised but he said don't blame me
your mother's nagging me too much I
can't take it you know it was one of
those things so those as a young person
those were the two things that I really
witnessed with him those were Clues
those were clues of something else those
were a window into his other life mhm
and what was his other life what was the
reality of his other life as you've come
to understand it well another thing and
this this it's amazing how you can
remember things sometimes at a young age
but you can't really put it together I I
have to go back the first real incident
that I had is um I was probably four
years old and we were living in Brooklyn
but my dad had moved us out me and my
mom to Long Island where my grandparents
were we were living in their house for a
while and I didn't see my dad for a
couple of days he's gone and then one
morning he comes in and my dad had a
heavy beard he hadn't
shaved and uh his right-hand man was
just standing out on the porch kind of
standing guard and my dad came in hugged
my mother my mother was a little upset
she was crying then he came over and
hugged me I was sitting on the step and
my grandmother's house I'm saying what
this what was this all about he was
there for about a half an hour and then
he left well what I didn't find out till
later on our family the Columbo family
was at War at that point and so my dad
was not at home it's kind of dangerous
to be at home and you know it lasted for
a while and I didn't know what that
meant at that time you know it's you you
look back and you put these things
together later
on so really I would say it was those
three incidents but look my dad was a
you know he was a a captain in that life
and then an under boss in that life so
he had a very high position powerful
position a lot of people around him a
lot of guys who were subordinate to him
and uh you know he was big time in that
life he was a captain and an under boss
yeah I have been trying to understand
the structure of a mafia
family so I printed off this to try and
understand it from what I from what I
could see and I'll put this on the
screen for anyone that's interested and
pin it below is that is that somewhat
accurate in terms of the structure of a
Mafia Family yeah yeah that's
it these are uh this is the true
rankings and that's the uh I mean
there's a boss and an under under boss
and the consiliary is kind of an advisor
to the boss and then you have the compor
Jes is the real term for it or capos and
they are uh they're kind of the street
bosses they're in elevated position and
then you have the soldiers which is the
first official rank when you get made
the term is made the night that you take
the oath and you become an official
member of that life your rank as a
soldier and um and the associates are
guys that are around us but never taking
the oath they're not full-fledged
members they're just Associates so from
the bottom up the bottom level is the
associates I'm going to repeat this back
to you to see make sure I've got it um
and they're not they haven't taken the
Earth so they've not become what you
call made men correct the soldiers are
the the first level that have taken the
oath correct um and they report into
capos capos and the capos reporting the
under boss capos can go right to the
boss also yeah and then then there's the
boss above the under boss yes he's the
boss he's the official ruler of the
family and your dad became an an under
boss under boss yes so he was one below
the the boss yes and you mentioned your
family had a certain name what was that
name Columbo Columbo yeah what is the
because I think I need to understand the
kind of history of the mafia to
understand what Columbo is yes well you
know originated in Italy obviously
Sicily and um it was originally just a a
group in Italy that baned together to
protect their towns from Marauders that
were coming in and and you know um doing
damage in the in the towns and the
cities and eventually for some reason
they started becoming a little bit of a
criminal you know body and then they
migrated many of them to New York you
know back in 1901 190 I think the
earliest in the late late 19 I think it
was maybe in 1885 or something like that
was when they first started coming here
to the United States came legally went
through Ellis Island and came in
Legally and originally the guys that
came in they were just kind of praying
on their own people in in the cities
that you know they uh they got
into and you know I can go through all
of this but uh you go back to the days
of Al Capone I'm sure you know you've
heard that name uh who originally came
from Brooklyn then went out to
Chicago and I I always say this they
were obviously involved in criminal
activity you know loan shocking lending
money at usurious rates extorting some
of the shop owners you know for
protection getting money out of them a
little bit of the gambling business but
what really happened I always say this
it was the government the United States
government that made the mafia strong in
the United States and when did they do
that with
prohibition because it was then that the
guy re the guys realized hey people want
this they want to drink the government
is uh you know Banning it but we're
going to allow them to have to have it
and so they started to create they got
into the illegal booze business
basically and to give you the extent of
that in New York state alone there were
36,000 speak easys which were illegal
bars at the time 36,000 in New York
alone and the mafia controlled all of
them and people wanted it and they gave
it to them and um it was extremely
lucrative I mean you're talking you know
in today's money billions of dollars and
that's what started to create this
organization and then in the 40s lucky
luchano who again came from uh from
Italy um saw that a lot of the guys were
starting to war among each other it was
always power and control and money and
he said we're not going to exist we're
not going to survive like this we have
to become an organization a business and
he's the one that created the Mafia
commission and split it up into families
actually at that time there were nine
families Nationwide and they were bosses
of each family and that's how this whole
structure came about it was in the 40s
was actually him Myer Lansky who played
a significant role even though maril
Lansky was not a maid guy because he was
Jewish and you have to be of Italian
descent but he was a right-hand man um
to Lucky Lano and that's when the mafia
really came to could be here in the
United States so the mafia was this one
organization and then lucky luchano did
you say yes he split it into lots of
families correct were those families
actually related by blood in any way no
was it just when you say split it into
families was he did he essentially just
appoint lots of CEOs to run different
parts of the same organization yeah it
was called a family I mean you could
have called it a group or whatever you
wanted to call it but we we called it
families and uh no they weren't
necessarily
related um and somebody emerged in that
group as the top guy and he officially
appointed them as the
boss and in order to have a seat on the
commission which was the ruling body of
all of these families Nationwide you had
to be the boss or representative of your
family that the boss designated and you
can then sit on the commission and the
commission allegedly um created policy
for all of the families Nationwide and
that's how it worked and allegedly
allegedly because you know I I got to
understand that the commission was like
the United Nations sounds good you know
and they they're going to create policy
but really you can't tell a boss of his
own family what to do he has total
autonomy so it sounded good and
sometimes the commission will make a
policy that people will respect but if
the boss of that family doesn't want to
they don't have to and how big were the
families in New York we had five
families and in each of the uh total
total made guys in those families was
about 750 guys you know the Gambino
family had about 250 guys and this is
through my era Genevie family 250 guys
Bano family Columbo family lucases we
had about aund and some OD each we were
the smaller families uh but you had
total about 750 made men guys that
actually took the oath and then we had a
lot of Associates you know hundreds so
we had a we had a big presence
especially in New York and did the
families fight each other even in New
York were there arguments amongst
families prior to the 40s yes when the
commission was created yes they would go
to war among each other once uh that
commission was created there was no more
Wars among the families anytime there
was a war it was a Civil War and it was
always a war for power our family the
Columbo family we were one of the more
violent Waring families we had three
Wars during my lifetime in the columbos
and it was always for power who wanted
to be the boss you don't have elections
somebody wants to take over it's a power
struggle and however it turns out it
turns out within the family within the
family now other families could say okay
we throw our support behind you but not
with Manpower it's you know whoever
you're rooting for at that point but um
no things were solved you know once the
commission came into place and the
family things were solved uh amicably
usually you know peacefully but there
was always a lot of disagreements there
was a lot of sitd downs you know to
straighten things out we had a lot of
that you know I was very active in that
life and I was going to sit down every
other day you know trying to resolve
something either one of my crazy guys
got in trouble it was a business
situation uh it was a lot of that what
is a sit down I was reading about this
uh in your work and I I found it quite
interesting because I think sometimes in
business as a CEO maybe we should
emulate this idea of having a sit down
we have a lot of meetings and a lot of
emails and stuff like that but seems
like you have a pure way of dealing with
things we do a sit down was the way we
resolved everything everything we sat
down they were structured when I say
structured you had normally the boss was
in control of that it was a serious one
rather than two captains or copos
getting together you had to bring the
boss in uh he was the final rule what he
says goes like it or not and there was
rules if you're a ma guy and I'm a made
guy and we're arguing over business uh
issue and you're lying through your
teeth I can't call you a liar if I call
you a liar I lose the argument
automatically because I disrespected you
you have to be respectful the meetings
so if a guy's lying you got to figure
out how to let the boss understand that
without calling him a liar and then at
the end of this um you know you uh
whatever decision the boss makes that's
it there's no appeals there's no nothing
shake hands get up and you leave and
that's the final ruling so you mentioned
this I wrote a book uh was actually a
business book I'll make you an offer you
can't refuse hoer Collins was the
publisher after they heard about that
they said we're not having any more
meetings from now on they're all sit
Downs he said that's it you know because
it was a lot more efficient what kind of
things would get resolved in a in a sit
down normally business disputes um and
then sometimes quite honestly you know
you know look that's a a life serious
consequences and if somebody violated
policy made a mistake to the point where
he was going to pay for it seriously you
had to sit down to decide his fate
basically people speaking for him people
speaking against him and then the boss
would make the final ruling so that
could be you know a serious sit down
could be a business matter so if in the
case of deciding someone's fate would
the person you were deciding their fate
be would they be sat there no no so it'
be someone on basically speaking yes on
behalf of one side of that decision
correct things like whether this person
should live correct have have you ever
been in a sit down where people were
discussing if someone should live and
you've seen it go both ways
yes your father got sent to prison when
you were 19 yeah well he finally he was
in and out before that but he started to
do uh time on that 50-year prison since
I was
19 how did that change your
life you through everything I read you
really loved this man I loved him he's a
good dad and he he wanted the best for
me at that point and he taught me great
things I mean he he really did and you
know the one advantage I had in my life
and again taught to me by my dad he
always said Son be a good listener
listen before you speak you know be
careful don't you know don't don't speak
out of turn he always told me to be a
good listener so the person I listened
to the most was him and he taught me
well in that regard so I had a lot of
love and respect for my dad and um when
he went away it was devastating because
he was 50 years old when he went into
prison fig he had 50 on top of that he'd
never come out of prison alive that's
what we thought you know so it was it
was uh it was tough I can almost still
see the emotion in you when you talk
about him going away to prison yeah it
was a defining moment in my life because
you know I I realized things were going
to dramatically change I mean I was the
oldest with my mom had three younger
brothers and
sisters and um I knew I had to play a
role in that you know and and taking
care of my mom because my dad when he
went away he said listen I'm entrusting
the family to you he said you know be a
good son and take care of your brothers
and sisters take care of your mother so
I mean I had that
responsibility um and I was doing that
anyway because during many of my dad's
trials my mom would go and I would one
time he was you know tried couple
hundred miles away from us they moved
the venue to Albany New York and I'm in
Long Island so my mom would be away for
three or four days at a time with my dad
I'd be watching the kids and so I mean I
took on that rule early on but then when
he went away it became a lot more you
know um serious
your life when he went away you were
studying to be a doctor be a doctor
yeah it's hard to imagine the sort of
turn of turn of events that happen in
your life at that point when you're
studying to be a doctor your dad goes to
prison and it ends up changing the
trajectory of your life it ends up
swaying you towards the life he had just
come from and you say that he was
wrongly
imprisoned my dad was framed on that
case framed yeah 100% I'll take it to my
grave Steve he was uh he was supposedly
uh masterminding a nationwide string of
bank
robberies and um you know when my my dad
first went away I I I was with him in
the visiting room we were in the jail
and I looked at him I said Dad bank
robbery and he looked at me and he said
son I'm innocent I'm not a bank robber I
didn't order these bank robberies she
said I was framed government framed me
my dad had never lied to me to that
point
and he saidwe got to work to overturn
this conviction and why did I believe
first of all he never lied to me so I
believed it but the four witnesses that
testified against him were all drug
addicts my dad my entire life preached
against drugs to me he used to make up
stories Parables to to show me the
dangers of drugs all of us though all
the kids so that we would never get
involved he hated anything to do with
drugs always spoke about it so I I never
saw my dad as a hypoc in that regard he
wouldn't associate with these people no
let do bank robberies with them so it
made it very real and so it angered me
in some ways but it motivated me to say
you know what I can't let my dad die in
here you know and then at the same time
I was getting very close to Joe Columbo
who was the boss of our family Columbo
family and uh he kind of took me under
his wing because you know he uh
obviously my dad was his under
boss and I started to meet a lot more of
my dad dad's friends and they would say
to me mikee what are you doing going to
school if you don't help your father out
he's going to die in prison so I was
very it affected me in a big way I said
I can't let that happen and even though
my dad did not want me involved in the
life but I went to visit him in the
visiting room lorth Penitentiary and I
said Dad I'm not going to school anymore
if I don't help you out you're going to
die in here and we kind of argued about
it because he he was disappointed he
didn't want that for me he knew the life
was tough he didn't want it for me he
want it for any of his kids and uh but I
was pretty headstrong as a kid and I
said Dad My Mind Is Made Up I lost
interest in school I'm not going to go I
said it's it you're wasting your breath
and basically he looked at me Steve and
you know and and I don't ever want to be
offensive to the audience but he looked
at me and he said okay but if you're
going to be on the street then I want
you on the street the right way in his
mind the right way was to become a
member of his life so he looked at me
and he said I got to ask you a question
very serious I said go ahead he said '
if you ever had to kill anybody could
you do it
and I said dad under the right
circumstances yeah I could do it he said
' that's the right answer he said to me
then he looked at me and he said' go
home somebody's going to be in touch
with you do what you told that's all he
said he didn't break it down he didn't
said this is what's required of you
nothing because you know Steve that's a
secret life you're not supposed to talk
about that life with anybody outside of
it my dad wouldn't violate that policy
even with me his own son he just figured
okay kids got it in them go home and do
what you're told and I didn't question
him I said okay Dad this is what you
want just point me in the right
direction I mean that's the kind of bond
that we had together at that point and
uh and I left there and that's how
things started for me when you answered
that question your dad asked you were
you telling the truth yeah I mean
obviously I'd never been in that
situation but I thought about it and I
don't I don't remember what rolled
through my mind at that point did I say
to myself well this is the answer my dad
wants or did I say to myself yeah I
could really do it as I sit here now all
these years later I can't honestly
answer
that um but the answer was
yes he didn't um he didn't ever try and
stop you or did he did he ever try and
persuade you out of join joining the
mafia no I mean prior to that point
that's not what he wanted for me but
once I made up my mind I think there was
a feeling of Pride or joy in my dad I
kind of seen it in him and that you know
once I did become a maid guy he was he
was overjoyed he was
thrilled how did he or anyone else think
that you joining the mafia would help
him simple needed money for
attorneys I had kind of a business head
my dad knew that we needed to track down
Witnesses and people that were involved
in the case that could you know say this
was a frame up and that's exactly what I
did I mean I went after all of these
Witnesses uh to try to find them and get
them to recant that testimony I worked
with the lawyers as a result of that and
eventually did get you know three of the
witnesses to recant their testimony gave
them lie detective test proved they lied
at the trial that the FBI had gone along
with the story that they met up because
my father was such a they wanted him so
bad they really did and if you go back
to the 60s and you look at the amount of
media attention he had you know you
wouldn't believe it but um so the FBI at
that time I believe was licit in in this
Frame up because they might have known
that these guys were lying one of the
one of the witnesses told me um that
when they agreed to cooperate with the
government they were going to put these
bank robberies or to make the Mastermind
somebody else and they actually did guy
by name of Tony pcei they said well he
was the original guy that told us how to
do these bank robberies and then when
the FBI told him this came right from
the witness the FBI told him well that C
you some time off but I ain't going to
go that far we don't care about Tony
polii a guy like Sunny Frances that
would matter and then they went and they
concocted this story because Steve the
thing is they committed all the bank
robberies every one of them and they
they described it in great detail at the
trial and all they said was that Sunny
Frances ordered them at a meeting that
we had once at the Q motor
in and um why did they pick the night
for the meeting because my dad was under
constant surveillance
and the FBI told them what day my dad
would be available to that wouldn't have
an alibi he probably sitting at home
wouldn't have an alibi to say that he
wasn't at that meeting so they
structured this whole thing and many
people afterwards have said Sunny would
never associate with these type of guys
so you know all those things came
together and and I really like I said
look I went to Crime I went to jail for
a crime I was guilty of pled guilty did
my time uh but this particular ular
crime that my dad did I'd take it to my
grave he he was not he was no bank
robber was your dad a good
guy I thought so I mean yeah listen
people liked him my dad was very
well-liked objectively as you sit here
today do you think he was a net positive
listen my D look I'm going to tell you
this you know the word on the street
from the FBI my dad was involved in 3035
murders now he never admitted that to me
about anyone in particular he was
indicted for one murder and he was
acquitted in that case found not guilty
but my dad was he was a tough guy
there's no question so if he was
involved in 35 matters as the FBI
suggest do you think he was better off
behind
bars what I'm getting at here really is
if they framed him was it a net benefit
to society that they framed
him well you know Steve let me let me I
know there's going to be a tough one but
let me let me tell you how I
think the the the right and just side of
me the legally just side of me says that
the government is never allowed to break
the law to uphold the law because if you
allow that to happen then it falls into
monarchy and people are not protected
because if they do it against Sunny
Frances they can do it against anybody
so I believe strictly the government has
enough tools and weapons to get people
the right way uh and they do 96 97% of
the time they shouldn't be allowed to
violate the law to go after a criminal
that's my my feeling on it now another
thing is this people think when we take
an oath the oath of omera it's an oath
to stay silent it's not an old to lie
steal cheat and kill does that happen as
part of that light yes but we're told
straight out now try to understand the
thinking here you come into that life
you told us straight out we have rules
you don't ever violate another man's
wife daughter sister girl never that'll
cause you to die during my era we
weren't allowed to deal with drugs you
deal with drugs you get caught you die
you maybe do some other things you're
not honest with people you disrespect
somebody you hit another ma guy you
die now we understand that and they tell
you your best friend may be the one that
pulls the trigger because the life comes
before anything that's it you know don't
violate the rules that's how we maintain
control in this life that's how we
existed for a 100 years and that's how
it's going to stay so now you're saying
okay we all agreed to this we all
admitted it if one of us decides to
violate the policy of the law and we get
caught well we understand the
consequences so that's how I looked at
it and that's how I Justified it now
does that say you can go out and start
to do random killings no if the boss
tells you to go kill somebody because he
doesn't like him and you do it that's
not right but if we kill our own and you
know you hear a lot of times Well we
only kill our own well we don't only
kill our own but if we only kill our own
knowing that we made that choice well
then okay I I kind of I kind of get it
in a way even though murder is murder
and it's a crime and it's sinful and I
understand that but that's how you
justify it but it wasn't the case that
you only killed your own
well for some of us it was and for
others it was not and I've seen both
sides of that you've never talked
about having to kill someone have you no
why is
that it's it's a it's just not a subject
I care to get into you know I uh
listen I like to be as honest as I
possibly can because I am a Christian
and you don't want to lie to people
but it's not something I want to talk
about I was wondering because when I
when I read that I thought maybe it's
because you know there's some might be
legal retribution maybe it's because you
know it's not nice for people to hear
about maybe it's because there's still
some kind of like rule where you can't
say anything but I wondered why maybe
it's all of the above I don't know well
you know Steve look there guys there's a
lot of guys on the street now and if you
go on YouTube You'll see a number of
them and they've admitted to murder that
they were involved in these are made
guys and they've admitted to it and many
of them had struck a deal with the
government they had immunity for the
crimes they committed even murder I mean
the government give you immunity for
murder if you want to uh if they want
you to cooperate and help them out it's
amazing but they'll do it and so they
have immunity they could talk about
their crimes I didn't cooperate to that
level at all I don't have immunity for
anything that I've done in the past you
know and listen you know our laws here
in the United States have you were
standing next to somebody when they
murdered somebody else you're there you
could you could be charged for murder
the same way to them so you know I'm
saying I have a was in that position I'm
just saying that's the law so you know
why talk about it number one and number
two murder is ugly you know it's it's
ugly and you don't ever want to talk
about it I mean I don't if I were to do
something like that I wouldn't be proud
of it I'm not trying to throw my chest
out and say hey look what I could do
guys go to war they kill people all all
the time you know in defense of our
country or defense of so I mean it's not
like oh God you know nobody I mean
murder happens every single day MH who
wants to talk about it some people do I
know not
me you got closer to the mafia when your
father was sent down and this was the
point where you decided not to go to
school the boss of the Columbo family
yes brings you close brings you under
his wing um do do you have to do some
kind of training or something to join
the MAF is there any oh you do oh yeah
well when you commit here's what
happened I leave there a captain in a
family picked me up and took me to see
the boss now unfortunately Joe Columbo
was assassinated he was shot seriously
wounded he lingered for about seven
years and then he died as a result of
these wounds so a new boss took over and
he's he's passed away now and I sat with
him this was about two weeks after my
father sent word downtown that he was
proposing me to be part of that life
because you can't just go up to somebody
say I'd like to join somebody has to
propose you vouch for you say you have
what it takes there's a lot of nepotism
in that life a lot of fathers brought
their sons in their nephews whatever so
in my case it was my dad that proposed
me and so I sat with the boss and he
said to me here's the deal you want to
become a member of our life your father
sent the message is that true and I said
yes he well here's the deal from now on
24 hours a day seven days a week you're
on call to serve this family the Columbo
family that means if your mother is sick
and she's dying you're at her bedside we
call you to service you leave your
mother you come and serve us from now on
we're number one in your life before
anything and everything when and if we
feel you've deserved this privilege this
honor to become a member will let you
know that's it and do you accept that I
said yes I do and so over the next two
and a half years I was in like a recruit
pledge period where I had to do anything
and everything I was told to do prove
myself worthy could have been something
very menial a lot of discipline in that
life a lot of authority a lot of alleged
respect you had a meeting at 8:00 you
weren't there at 7:30 you were late can
never be late in that life I don't care
what the situation is you had a meeting
at at 8:00 if there was traffic and you
were concern come the night before and
sleep in the car can never be late no
excuses you know Drive the boss to a
meeting sit in the car 3 four five hours
got forbid you leave you go to the
restroom get a newspaper he comes out
you're not there oh my gosh we could
have had trouble you you were the
getaway driver you weren't there I know
I did that once and I paid the price you
know for it that's very serious stuff
you paid the price well paid the price
in other words I got a real good tongue
lashing I'll tell you you know um you
know just stuff like that they kind of
put you on the shelf for two weeks you
know to make you understand the
seriousness of what you did so you never
do it again you never repeat your
mistakes in that life if you're smart
you want to if you want to number one
want to survive and number two you want
to move up you never repeat your
mistakes so so you know things like that
and then look I'm going to be honest
with you you know as as honest as I
possibly can it's a violent life at
times if you're part of the life in some
shape or form you're part of the
violence and uh if anybody tells you
differently they're either not being
honest or they weren't a made member of
that life and that's just how it goes
why' you say that because you said you
said demial and then you said it's a
violent life are you are you saying that
in that sort of probationary two years
you had to do both of those things you
had to be involved in the viol and do
the menal stuff let's put it this way
they got to have enough faith in you
that you can be capable of doing
whatever it is they tell you to
do they have to they have to understand
that and feel that because if they don't
feel that you're not going anywhere that
that's it so during that time you're
going to be
tested and you were tested yeah when
when they made you pledge that if your
mother was dying and you were at her
bedside and they called you and asked
you to do something you'd leave
would you have left if your mother was
dying back then I mean I might have I
mean you know I was a I was a play by
the rule guy you know I
uh you know I I was very fortunate that
I had a great teacher in my dad he was a
student and master of the life and so
and I was like a sponge I absorbed
whatever my dad told me I listened and
you know some of the things that he told
me were were right so I might have at
the time I'm going to be honest with you
I mean I I don't know it it it would
have to depend on what's happening at
that moment but you know I was so
indoctrinated into that life at some
point um it's who I
was sounds a bit like a
cult in a way it's cult-like I guess you
know in a way I mean we didn't do silly
things you know we wouldn't have rituals
and ceremonies other than that that one
yeah other than that one nothing after
that but what did it teach you about
people skills because you're around
these bosses these very talented men
you're seeing how they conduct
themselves do business Influence People
win friends what what did that phase of
your life teach you about how to be a
motivator SL manipulator of people yeah
it taught me well I think I got it you
know there's kind of two levels in that
life you're either a
racketeer or you're a gangster what's
the difference I'll tell you the
difference
a gangster is a guy that really doesn't
know how to use that life to benefit him
in
business so he's more of a I don't want
to say tough guy I don't want to say the
term but he's more of a guy that hey we
had something done this is the guy send
him out let him do it because you got to
earn your keep in that
life we in the Columbo family had 115
maid guys at that time out of of the 115
20 of us were really earning money and
supporting the family in some way and
and really elevating the family we were
racketeers now a gangster could never
really be a racketeer he just doesn't
know how but a racketeer has to be a
gangster also because you're going to be
called upon not as much as this guy but
when you're called upon you got to do it
so you know I was more of a
racketeer and as a result of that I was
constantly in business disputes and
sitting down with other guys and you
have to learn you know how to negotiate
I mean I learned the art of negotiation
at these sit Downs you know learned how
to try to you know really before I walk
into a meeting with somebody number one
try to know the personality of that
person know if there's a fallback
position if I'm not winning what I'll
accept and so I had to prepare myself
for these meetings because unprepared
you know they'll chew you up because a
lot of these old time was were very
skillful and believe me you could be
100% right and end up wrong and they'll
put you in a in a trap so you really had
to know what you were doing and so my
people skills in that regard as far as
negotiating and identifying a true
leader um were really hone to a a you
know a high degree because I came out on
top many many times what are the the
principles of in your view of a good
sell or a good negotiation are there and
are there small things that you saw
within the mafia that you probably don't
see in the outside world one of them
you've already named which is this idea
of being really punctual mhm but what
and it seems like respect is at the very
heart of much of what you said what are
those small things that are important
for a negotiation or a sales pitch in
your view well understand you know again
you know I always learn this there's
sometimes you can walk into a room and
be the smartest person in the room you
don't want anybody to know that and you
want people to just talk let you know
just talk give them an opening give them
throw them a bone so that they're gon to
come back and talk and and learn the
personality of this person learn you can
learn so much from people just when they
talk and you keep quiet there's other
times when you're not the smartest
person in the room and by keeping quiet
nobody knows that what is this guy
thinking what you know what is this
thinking it's a tremendous technique and
in that life it was extremely valuable
for me I was always the last guy to talk
don't tell me everything you know and uh
it helped me kind of Master that art in
that life because you had these guys
never sell them short there were some
very smart guys here if they weren't in
that life they would have been
successful somewhere else you know very
smart so you had to really know what you
were doing because the consequences too
are very severe I mean you could walk in
there and lose your shirt you know
because the boss could say hey not only
you going to pay this guy this but
you're going to pay the family
everything else and everything you got
I'm taking away from you right now those
that's how severe it could have been so
you yes you really had to know I'll tell
you this when I I think you know I was
in the gas business right the gas tax
business I was defrauding the government
out of tax on every gallon of gasoline
it was probably the biggest scam since
the days of prohibition explain to me
how that was even possible the law at
that time is that the gas tax was
collected by a wholesaler you had to be
a licensed
wholesaler but the government really
wasn't up to their collection process so
to make a long story short I had 18
companies that were licensed to col the
tax on every gallon of gasoline they
were all shell companies every single
one of them all right and they were all
Panamanian companies why Panama because
Panama corporation in c Panama had be
stock you give me the stock I'm the
owner I give it to you you're the owner
so we didn't have to give a lot of
information the only reason I needed the
company was number one to get the LI to
get the license and number two to open a
bank account I didn't need brick or more
I need anything right that's all I
needed so so now I'm allowed to collect
the tax we had a very sophisticated um
process or strategy to collect that tax
for about 10 11 sometimes a whole year
before the government came down on us
because we had a report we had to pay
quarterly and so on and so they were
very slow they're very slow so we we had
a way to keep them at Bay for almost a
year when they finally came down on us
we closed the office closed the the that
license and just started operating under
a new license well I ran this for seven
years so just to summarize off I'll make
sure I'm clear you had the supply chain
coming from Panama that was where the no
we had we had the companies were
Panamanian companies okay right so where
was the gas coming from gas was coming
from we were buying barges as they came
over from the Middle East and we were
buying gas from all the major oil
companies ah okay so you bought the gas
with a shell company in Panama which
allowed you to get the wholesale license
so that you could collect the tax from
the retailer correct of the gas and then
you would sell it to the retailer and
then when the government for their tax
maybe 12 months later you say sorry the
company's gone busted and you shut it
down you would say anything the door
would be closed there would be nobody
there they wouldn't even know where to
go okay yeah so you were you then giving
the retailer a discount on the gas yes
okay you know I I the way I do it let's
say you know and I had 350 gas stations
I either owned or operated 300 plus gas
stations we either owned or operate at
least whatever but uh if we would go buy
a gas station on a corner where there
were four stations and you have a lot of
that in New York we would buy one
station lead one station could have been
a mobile any brand didn't matter and
we'd get the other three station owners
and say come here we want to talk to you
here's the deal okay whatever you sell
the gas for we're going to be two cents
cheaper if you go down five we'll go
down 10 if you go down 10 we'll go down
20 because I had 40 cents to work with
in most cases I we'll put you out of
business so just stay understand that
we're going to stay two cents we don't
want to kill you we want you to earn
money but we're always going to be
cheaper before you know it they're
buying all their GS from us anyway so we
was selling all all four stations were
you know being supplied by us because
look gas station owner if you're saving
them five six seven cents a gallon 10
cents a g it's a lot of money you know
if they're doing volume too so we were
selling gas to everybody branded
stations unbranded stations didn't
matter and the government just could not
keep up with us so when I realized what
I had you'll appreciate this I went to
my boss at the time call my personal
he's passed on now and we called him
Junior and I said Junior here's the deal
I'm going to show you more money than
you've ever seen in your life cuz I
realized what I had right he says we
don't do drugs I says not drugs you know
I hate drugs I nothing to do with drugs
he said what is it I said it's gas gas I
said yes tax money oh okay that's clean
I said but here's the deal everybody's
going to want a piece of this everybody
on the street when they realize what we
what I have here they're going to want a
piece of it so here's what you have to
do you have to make me win every
argument I said anytime I sit down
doesn't matter what family it is I said
don't play politics you know I said I'm
not telling you as the boss what to do
but I'm telling you I'm going to make
you wealthy so I said make me win every
argument I'm going to be right anyway
I'll come in right I said so make make
me win I'll make you more money than you
ever seen before I'll never forget Steve
he just sit back like this he said show
me okay I was bringing him $2 million a
week it built up to that buys a lot of
loyalty and a lot of wins on the street
CU I was constantly sitting down with
people people they wanted a piece wanted
this wanted that then if somebody wasn't
I wasn't the only guy in the business we
just B it did it better than anybody
else but if somebody wanted to buy gas
from us I'd say okay but you got to pay
if you don't pay it's going to be a
problem so when people didn't pay we had
to sit down I always won you know so it
was uh I mean look at it elevated I
became a captain as a result of the
money that I was turning in and I had a
big crew under me you know I was living
a liftime in a Jet Plane I had a
helicopter I we're bringing in 78 n10
million a week at times is that big
selling a half a billion gallons of gas
a month taking down 30 40 cents a gallon
whatever we decided to char somebody at
that time it's a lot of
money that's a lot of money I think I'm
in the wrong business no you're in a
right yeah yeah from what I understand
you're doing pretty well so it's seven
or eight seven to 10 million a week I'm
not doing that well well does this
little gas Loop holster work let's put
it this way I'm out of it and uh I don't
even want I don't even want to be
tempted so if I wanted to become a maid
man back then which is basically when
you kind of swear the oath yeah and you
join the mafia that was after your two
years um of sort of probationary period
being an
intern I mean that process of becoming a
maid man sounded a little bit culty well
I'll tell you this you know when I got
straightened out we we call it
straightened out believe it or not you
you're straightened out that's when you
become a maid man right you know same
term but uh that was in
1975 for 20 years prior to that almost
25 years they had a a term that the
books were closed they weren't bringing
any new guys into the life and that was
Nationwide why security reasons they
said the only time you can make a guy is
if a guy died in a family you could
replace him so you're replaceing the
ranks but you couldn't bring anybody
else in well in the mid 70s they opened
the books okay now we're going to start
to build the families up again when I
was made there was guys waiting 20 years
25 years yeah that were part of that and
just waiting for the day when they can
have their turn so I was you know
definitely a younger guy I mean it was a
couple of younger guys that got in at
that time you know the the double-edged
sword because there's a lot of
resentment to the young guys that got in
after two three years and guys are
waiting 20 25 years you know you it's
like anything else just that you have
the resentment from the older guys and I
had to deal with that it's just that and
it's it's a little more severe on the
street than it would be in normal life
do you still you become a maid man you
have to swear an oath to the mafia what
is that oath that you swear well for me
it was Halloween night 1975 when I took
the oath it was me and five other guys
uh that night and you don't have any
preparation they just tell you wear a
suit and then all of a sudden that night
it happens you kind of get maybe a
little inkling because you're waiting
for this to happen and we walked into a
room individually it was late at night
very solemn ceremony a dimly lit room
the uh boss was seated at the head of
like a horseshoe configuration the under
boss in the C area to his left and right
and all the carer James were alongside
of them soldiers can't attend this only
the copos only the the brass of the
family I walked down the aisle stood in
front of the boss I held out my hand he
took a knife cut my finger some blood
dropped on the floor this is a Blood
Oath I cued my hands he took a picture
of a saint Catholic alter God put in my
hands lit it a flame didn't hurt it
burnt quickly it was merely symbolic and
he said tonight Michael Frances you are
born again into a new life into kostra
this thing of ours violate what you know
about this life betray your brothers and
you will die and burn in hell like the
saint is burning in your hands do you
accept yes I do and that's how it
started that's the oath very fast very
simple very serious were you scared when
you walked into I was exhilarated that
night I was like wow finally you know
I'm going to have this even closer bond
with my dad uh I've worked for this now
for two and a half years um I was
exhilarated that night I mean hon and so
were the other Five Guys everybody why
when you look back with the wisdom that
you have now as to why you joined that
life I know your father was a catalyst
in some respects but I imagine it's
probably a bit more complex than it just
being about your father what were your
genuine motiv
ation you know quite honestly I didn't
aspire to be a mom guy I mean even
though I admired my dad it's not the
path that I wanted to take it didn't and
say wow I wish I could do that you know
and it's kind of odd because a lot of
the young people I speak to now lot
these gang bangers go into juvenile
halls and prisons and they say the same
thing wow you guys had all the money you
had all the power you had the cars you
had the women and it turned them on and
that's what wanted they wanted to be
that guy
I didn't have that feeling maybe because
I grew up with it maybe because that was
my dad um you know we didn't grow up
poor weren't wealthy but we didn't
really you know want for anything we we
had roof over our head we went on a
vacation every once in a while so we
didn't have struggle it financially in
that regard so I mean it's not something
I aspired to be it was strictly strictly
to help my dad really yeah it really was
then of course as I get into the process
well now I want to complete it I want to
become that made guy I'm working for it
you know it's like anything I do you
know I want to complete it I want to
succeed so that became part of it and
then you know because watching my dad is
one thing going through the process
understanding what the life is about
being around the other guys that were
mentoring me now I I started to really
get an understanding of the life there I
say you sound
like you were maybe slightly different
in in the sense of your intentions of
being there with slightly different from
those around you in that life what what
were everybody else's intentions what
were their motivations and I was
wondering as you speaking about the
different personality types you must
have encountered in that life I've heard
you say
before there are two types of people in
the mafia people who enjoyed killing and
people who were just following
orders which Camp were you in oh
definitely following
orders I mean I was listen there was
some you know I can mention his name
because everybody knows it it's not but
there's a guy by name Roy Deo I don't
know if you ever heard that night Roy
was uh you know it it was he was a
serial killer no question but what I say
about Roy and I knew him Roy would have
been a serial killer if he wasn't in a
mafia the mafia didn't make him a serial
killer that's just who he was I mean he
enjoyed it you know and there were guys
like that he enjoyed it I think so had
to because how how could you do that I
mean what did he do couple hundred
murders and if you you know he had a
place called The Gemini Club it was
a it was a club that he had and they
described the way they would kill
because some people became informants
that were involved with him and I mean
killing people chopping up bodies I mean
it it was gruesome you know I mean
you're a different kind of human being
if you're doing stuff like that you know
have you have you your experience in the
mafia must have taught you something
about the nature of humans and what way
we're capable of because we all walk
around thinking that we're quote unquote
good and that we are just we were born
with this perfect sort of moral compass
and that none of us are capable of doing
violent things or morbid things or aoral
things but you must have a slightly
different perspective on that yeah not
true at all I think just the opposite I
think we all have something in us that
you know if we're triggered in the right
way we can we can do damage let's put it
that way way I've seen that my whole
life sometimes for the right reasons and
sometimes for the wrong reasons you know
obviously if you're in defense of your
family of your friend I mean you you
might do some horrible things to to
somebody that's trying to victimize them
uh but there's others that you know just
do it because they can do it and I've
seen that I've seen
both do you think things like murder are
part of human nature yes
absolutely I do believe that
I mean you
know and I want to be clear on this be
careful on this murder is
murder murder is murder the reason you
commit it is another thing but listen
you're going to the military you're
killing people on the other side why are
you doing it well I'm defending my
country and I get it and I understand
that and that's a noble
thing supposedly right but you're still
committing murders you still have it in
you you could have been the nicest guy
in the world okay you could have been
the most laid-back soft person in the
world you go into the military they're
going to teach you to be a killer and
you're going to do it so you have it in
you you know
um it's a tough thing but I think I
think everybody has the capability of
doing something doing damage let's let
me use that word how have you been
affected by what you saw because I can
imagine your eyes have seen seen some
things that mine absolutely haven't and
it's it's impossible to think that one
can just shake that off you know i' I've
been blessed in a way that sometimes
even my wife gets upset with me that I
can compartmentalize things pretty well
and I think it's the result of being in
that life and I I think this is what
triggered it for me Steve I had a a fell
when my dad went to prison he was a they
called him Arty the animal he's a real
tough guy right he was a Jewish guy but
I loved him he was like a second dad for
me my father and him were very close
when my dad went away he kind of again
took not only me but my whole family
very close with his family he had
younger kids his his wife was was
wonderful and um he got murdered I was
young was 17 18 years old and he got
murdered no I'm sorry I'm sorry made
mistake it was when my dad first went
into prison so I was 19 or
20 and
um I walked into the funeral parlor I'll
never forget get and his sister came up
to me and hugged me and she said you
need to come with me you need to look at
what these animals did to my brother
I'll never forget the words the coffin
was
closed and she opened the coffin and he
was unrecognizable there's a guy I
loved I I didn't faint but it got to me
it really got to me i' never seen
anything like that before in reality
especially somebody I really cared for
really loved and it did have an impact
on me there's no
question but somehow I was able to get
beyond that as a young person I don't
know what that says about me in that
regard
um and I'm able to do that about certain
things you know even if it's wrong this
was wrong but I I can't sit on it I
can't let it get to me I can't I got to
overcome it and I think think that was
uh that was a defining moment in my life
to be able to move that and then
continue to move into the life because I
said this is part of it do you regret
that she did that that she showed you
him yeah I didn't need to see that I
didn't need to um she did it out of love
she didn't do it out of because she
loved me and she was her sister
devastated and I think she felt close
enough to me because she knew how I
cared about Arty and how he cared about
me so she just it was grief no other
reason you know it was just aere a
sincere move that she did but I didn't
need to see that and you know what
there's times when I have visions of
that um my wife you know I have a
tendency in my sleep things don't come
out of me when I'm awake but when I'm in
my sleep she says you know you had a
fight last night who is it with and it
happens fairly often you know more than
I think a normal person um but I don't
remember I wake up hey I'm fine you see
him in your sleep I have yeah I have
um again that was like boom you know and
something just impacts you in a way like
whoa I compartmentalizing sounds like a
good short-term strategy to to things to
grief to um traumatic events and things
but I I don't know if I believe one can
truly compartmentalize something Forever
Without It rearing its its head some
somewhere else I almost see it like kind
of like whacka all like I might be able
to shut it down in this part of my life
but it's probably going to emerge over
here in some other way I agree with that
I I think when something is so severe
even at that moment I think it could it
could last and come out in different
ways you know um you know I mean another
I mean there was a very dear friend
friend of mine you know was like a
brother to me and he ended up getting
killed and that had an impact on me
because I honestly tried to save him and
I
couldn't yeah because he he without
getting into the details he did
something that was total violation of
our life and he lost his life as a
result of it and I couldn't save him I
tried but I couldn't he was in the mafia
yeah so there was a sit down I'm
presuming and it was decided that he
wasn't going to live yeah were you in a
sit down I was in I was in a number of
sit Downs in my life you know
um yeah it was
uh it was a tough one you know one of
the horrors of that life is you know you
make a mistake your best friend walks
you into that room you don't walk out
again and throughout the course of my
life I've seen that obviously I've seen
guys that you know were here one day
gone the next and it's
uh it's it's one of the evil parts of
that life there's no question and I saw
guys that that died for the wrong
reasons you know it's like anything else
you know in in the corporate world you
have greed and you have backstabbing and
all of that but you lose your job you
lose some money you move on in that life
the consequences are
severe so um I was thinking about my
best friend and I was thinking if my
best friend did something which was
disrespectful in some way I don't know
he stole something maybe he something
even more extreme he slept with my
sister you
know I wouldn't want him to die no you
wouldn't want him to die but in the life
you came from he would he would die it's
uh it's a it's the most severe policy I
I'll tell you this I'll tell you how
severe it is there was another guy you
know and I have to mention his name was
two brothers that were made guys in that
life and I was friendly with them both
one of them happened to be in our family
the other one was with another family
but I drove him home to Brooklyn one
day and um he got out of the car and I
said I'll see he said no wait wait don't
leave yet I said okay I waited so he
opened the door of his house and he
looked in and like he was looking at
something I wasn't really paying
attention but then I seen him close the
door and come out and he got in car and
I said what happened he said well
nobody's home I but that's your house
what do you mean nobody's home why do
somebody have to be home and he said I
can't go in my house I said what do you
mean well his father had been caught
fooling around with somebody else's wife
or daughter at the time and him and his
brother were given the contract and he
killed his
father and he said anytime I walk in the
house if I'm alone the ghost of my
father is in there and haunts me
so he said I haven't been in my house
alone in 20 some odd years he killed his
own father
yeah
now I want to you know I don't want to
how should I say this I don't want to
give the impression that that's what the
life is all about every day and all the
time it's
not but there are extreme cases where
these things happen and that's what
makes it a bad life and I call it an
evil life because families are destroyed
as a result of this I don't know any
family of any maid member of that life
that hasn't been devastated including my
own now not my wife and kids I've been
able to spare them of that praise God
but my mother 33 years without a husband
when she passed away in 2012 her
relationship with my dad ugly because
she blamed him for everything that went
wrong rightfully so he was gone all
these 40 years my dad did on that 50 so
what went wrong my sister 27 years old
dies of an O overdose of
drugs my brother 25 years a drug addict
Steve you don't know what I had to do to
save his life so many times kid you know
drug addict if he wasn't my my brother
my Father's son he would have never made
it my younger sister 40 years old she
died young she was never mentally stable
the whole family was devastated and my
father ended up doing 40 years out of 50
in that prison he was out a few times on
parole but 40 years out of the 50 his
life destroyed basically so any
lifestyle that does that to a family is
a bad life it's an evil life and I don't
know any family of any member that
hasn't met a similar fate in some way
shape or form so you know I came to that
conclusion I said this is this is bad
and what got me out of it you know I met
a young girl that I fell in love with
she was 20 years old my wife were
married 39 years this week
um I said' am I going to do this to this
girl and marry her I'm a major Target is
I'm never going to get away with this
long term I had huge Bulls on my back I
went to trial five times I had seven
indictments arrested 18 times they were
never going to let me go they had a 14
agency task force that was assigned to
put me in jail forever it's all
documented so I said what am I going to
do I'm going to marry this girl and in
two years I'll be in jail for the rest
of my life so that's what started to
give me I got to get away from
this do you think you would have um
gotten away from it just with the will
of Love Alone no if it was I I you
know I really thought about this myself
so often you know I had an incident
where my dad actually betrayed
me and it was devastating to me and it
made me think I said if this life can
separate father and son what do I really
have here what do we really have what
are we doing here and I didn't meet my
wife until two years after
that um but I I don't if that act of
betrayal didn't happen for my dad I
don't know if I would have ever left the
life because the the pull he had on me
was very strong I don't know if I would
have walked away but I think that had to
happen to kind of separate me from him
and really make me understand that this
life if it could separate us what is it
what was the
Betrayal I was called into a room one
night was over money and there was an
article that came out in a Long Island
newspaper I think it was a long island
press out of circulation now that said I
was becoming powerful enough to take
over to start my own family break away
from the Columbo start my own family no
truth in it whatsoever some reporter
just made it up because I was doing well
I had a Jet Plane helicopter big crew I
was in the media what was your net worth
and how old were you
I was uh well when I walked away from
that life I was 34 this was I was around
30 at that point 29 30 do you know what
your net worth was I have no idea
because I had a lot of cash was in the
Millions for sure it was a lot of money
and then it was saying that I that I had
defrauded the government at $2 billion
it wasn't two billion it was a lot of
money but you know they always they
always exaggerate so now guys on the
street are starting to get a little2
billion dollar his own family I had the
Russians I had organ organized the
Russians with me we had a very strong
crew had a lot of guys around me so I
think to they walk me into that room one
night and my father was in there before
me and I mean I could this story can
take an hour so I don't want to hold you
up with it but um the bottom line is I I
I talk my sense into them and said
basically I'm bringing you all this
money and I'm being put on the spot for
this I said I'm taking all the risk
nobody else is in Jeopardy here these
are my guys nobody knows who you are I
purposely kept my guys away from them so
that if my thing ever blew up we
wouldn't be hurting any of the guys in
the family and I said and now I'm being
questioned I said they write an article
about me all of a sudden it's true they
write about everybody else it's false so
I started to get angry with the boss you
don't do that you know you know the you
never outshine the master you know that
principle and that life for sure so I
calmed myself down I said okay I'm
walking out of here everything's going
to be all right then we finished up and
you know we glass of wine everything's
great you know the usual thing and then
it wasn't until I got in the car with
the guy that drove me there who I knew
my whole life he was a captain along
with me and I got in the car and I got
very upset with him I said you knew you
didn't tell me what was happening here
tonight I walking into a trap and you
don't prepare me you don't say anything
to me you know what he said Steve he
looked at me and he said if was the
other way around would you have told
me and I said you're a smart guy and I
said
no said Michael you know the life as
well as anybody you grew up around the
best I said okay I get out of I go to
get out of the car and he grabs my hand
my arm and he says I'm going to tell you
something you're not going to want to
hear this but it's the truth I am your
friend he said we live by a certain code
but I am your friend I said what your
father was in there before you tonight
he didn't help you one bit he hurt you
in there tonight and I was like
devastated I said what do you
mean and I said it to myself I didn't
ask him I couldn't even answer him I W I
was starting I got out of the car and
was walking towards my car and I started
to think knowing my father so well I
said I know what he did hey my son is
stealing he does everything I'm on
parole I don't know what he's doing I
have no idea he just kind of took the
high road and left me on my own instead
of standing up for me because we were
both captains at that point my Dad could
have forcefully said how dare you my son
would never rob me he could have really
came out but he didn't I was really on
my own and that could have been
dangerous you know again the traps that
they set up for you during that time
because believe me they would have love
to take over my business and just you
know and you got to watch for that so
the traps that were set up you know
fortunately I was able to navigate him
but uh it really was devastating CU I
said H how could that happen and you
were running most multiple businesses at
that point not just the the fuel
business no I had I had uh well you know
I had legitimate business I had two uh
automate Bal agencies I had a Mazda
dealership very successful I had a
Chevrolet dealership successful I had a
leasing company I had a film production
company at that time I was making movies
I made about 30 Films during that time
all horror exploitation films they were
big at that point I had a number of
restaurants that I was involved in um I
had a video shop on video you know sets
and everything were big didn't compete
with Blockbuster but we had a good
neighborhood spot you know so I had a
lot of things going on I had a lot of
money on the street I was lended money
out to uh to a lot of my own guys I'd
lend it to them they in turn would lend
it to somebody else you know so I mean I
had I had had a lot going on and did you
have to pay a tax to the mafia for
earning money did you have to then pay
the mafia some of that money if it was
illegitimate yes okay so if it's legal
no if it's legal no unless they
contributed in some way and they didn't
my dealerships were mine I didn't didn't
owe them anything you know my my film
company was mine uh but anything I had
on the street yes you have to pay up how
did being part of the mafia help you in
business could you just you told me the
gas station story I imagine you went
strong arming your way all the time into
business or were you didn't have the
strong arm you know uh listen the Mazda
agencies that I got people knew who I
was you know I was going broke I didn't
have any money I was on trial a couple I
was broke but I told the guy said listen
I understand the business I'm very
aggressive Give me the give me the place
you know who my father is you know ah
you got it I'm going broke so he gave me
the dealership basically and then
through a series of things I was able to
get floor planning I mean it was a whole
stuff I worked hard Steve I was 7 day a
week working guy worked hard I kind of
understood certain things like you know
I right away there was a guy in General
Electric Credit you know I went to him I
knew he kind of was fascinated with the
life and I said to him look I need a
floor plan for my cars I don't have any
money I said I need a couple hundred, I
got to be able to buy cars from Mazda I
said I'll give you so much your car I
said you floor plan me I'll play it
straight with you every car I sell I'll
give you a couple hundred bucks he was
in troll he floor planned me that's how
I got the floor plan what's the floor
plan floor plan is financing to buy the
cars from from the uh manufacturer so
you can put them on your yacht oh your
they don't give you credit you got to
when does it all come crashing down for
you
well Came Crashing Down really like I I
had went to trial five times and is
either dismissed or quitted in every
case I beat him five times but it came
crashing down in the gasoline tax case
my partner who he and I developed this
scheme together he was really the brains
of it I was the Polish I knew how to do
certain things that he couldn't do but
he came up with the scheme I brought the
accountant in I brought a certain
strategy in I brought people to the
table and I made sure nobody messed up
and we got the right money I was I was
the expansion part of the business you
know and um he became an informant he
got in trouble on an unrelated case and
uh they told him listen you're going to
jail forever unless you give us Michael
and that's when it started to come down
on me I took a plead at a gasoline case
even though he had testified against me
in a prior case and I was acquitted we
destroyed him on the stand he wasn't a
good witness but part of my strategy
I'll take a plea I'll marry I knew my
wife at that point I'm going to marry
this girl I'll get a lower sentence by
taking a plea I'll give the government
back some money I gave up my plane my
helicopter the whole bit take it
forfeitures I had five million in
forfeitures and 15 million in
restitution I had to pay them so um it
was part of my strategy to take a plea
do some time give them some money move
out to the West Coast marry girl and
then try to get out of her life it's
part of my strategy really how' you feel
about him you know I'm going to tell you
God's honest truth um he was six 6'4
almost 65 450 pounds big guy he wasn't a
sloppy fat he was a big guy right we
were together seven eight years never
had an
argument his kids called me uncle
Michael I was married before for a short
time and my young kids called him Uncle
Larry we made Millions together but I
knew he was weak I knew if he ever got
in trouble and um look when he got in
trouble they said to me we'll take care
of him for you and I said listen I'm
going to fight him his wife I know his
family I can't do it I said just I'll
fight him in court they were upset with
me for making that decision and that was
my decision I said I'll fight him in
court and
um that's what happened how'd you feel
about
him it's almost
like I couldn't even be really upset
with him because we were we got along so
well we made so much money I just knew
he was weak so you know I learned one
thing Steve I I try not to put the blame
on anybody else anything that goes wrong
I take responsibility for
personally I should have known better
even if some guy does me wrong why
didn't I figure that out why didn't I
know this I always to take
responsibility so I don't make the same
mistake again it's worked for me my
whole life when you start playing a
Blame Game and start all it does it's
it's a sign of weakness in my view and
you know if you accept responsibility
for everything even when it really isn't
your fault and you say I should have
known better come on how did I do this
why I let this guy get take advantage of
me like this you know until right now I
have a situation now I'm saying the same
thing my fault you know what am I going
to do get mad you know so you know it's
just the way I operate so was I really
upset with him like you know no when you
say you knew he was weak how are you
defining weakness and strength I knew if
he got in trouble he wouldn't stand up
he would cooperate he didn't want to go
to prison he was he wasn't a guy that
was going to do jail time I knew that
and uh and my other guy you know one of
the things is my boss always wanted to
meet him and I said I'm not going to me
now I know why they wanted to meet him
you know in case of anything they would
take him away from me right I said I'm
not going to make you meet him because
he's weak if we ever get he he's going
to give up everybody so why would I make
him meet you and then you're going to
blame me for introducing him to you
strategy right they couldn't say no to
that they couldn't say no and I said it
in front of people I said I'm telling
you this guy is not going to stand up
when I have a problem he's my problem
I'll take care of it my way but I'm not
going to introduce him to people that he
can put in trouble no way
and they couldn't argue with that was
part of my strategy so when he snitched
effectively MH did they not want to take
care of it oh absolutely yeah they said
we'll handle it for you you know turn us
you know let us know they wanted they
wanted him out of the picture so they
didn't want this to
end because they figured that if he's
gone I can still keep this
going how how easy was that for them to
order someone's murder because they it
sounds to matter of fact like oh we'll
take care of this the boss had total how
hard was it for the boss to order a
murder and then have it executed yeah
wasn't hard at
all was not hard at all especially was
with somebody within our
life it wasn't hard unfortunately so the
boss could you say take care of him and
then someone would go and do it
absolutely no questions asked boss at
that point say he's going to go they
need to sign it to somebody and then
it's up to them
how they handle it what if they didn't
handle it they'd be in trouble they got
to handle it was there ever an instance
you can recall why someone didn't handle
it well it could have been an aborted
attempt and if it was a legitimately
aborted attempt um you know you you're
normally not going to be held
responsible for that
but if you're given a job you better get
it done let's put it that way or you
going to be responsible in some ways yes
you could be especially if that person
goes on to do something hurtful to
everybody
else eventually you do get sent to
prison you take a plea deal yeah what's
your plea deal I plad to uh it was a
racketeering case the underlying Act was
uh tax fraud MH and um two counts that I
pled guilty to racketeering conspiracy
something and 10-year prison sentence 15
million 14.7 million in restitution 5
million in
forfeitures and um leave you with any
money well yes because in negotiating
The Plea I was able to keep certain
things and not I said listen if I'm
going to take a plea my wife's not going
to go to work I'm going to make sure my
wife my kid they're all okay so I'm
going to keep some of the money you know
so uh when you're negotiating a plea my
lawyer he was able to at least give me
enough my wife never had to go to work
when I was in jail did they I was
wondering this because a lot other
things you described sound like they
were done in cash a lot of cash no
question um but there was a lot of wire
transfers and money sent in different
places we had a lot but not everybody
paid and we were selling to legitimate
gas station owners you know they didn't
pay you in cash all the time and
especially when you selling big volume
there was a lot of wire transfers a lot
of wire activity what was the most cash
you ever saw in person oh gosh I think
the most I've ever seen is like 10K I
just think
well I've just never seen a lot of cash
in my lifetime we I don't even have a
wallet you don't deal with cash I just
have my phone so you know
probably 40 50 million around there in
cash in cash yeah yeah you've seen 40 or
50 million in cash mhm when was that
back in the uh 80s early 80s was it just
in a room or something yeah it was in a
room yeah how how big does a room have
to be to have 40 50 had to be pretty big
cuz gas station money is small bills
okay yeah I mean listen it got to a
point with the cash where I used to come
home and I used to get the fives and
ones and I used to give them to my wife
say give this to your brothers and
sisters because I have no room for them
there's no place to put them and I'd
give her a couple Grand and and say just
give it out want keep the 20s and you
know the T
and it was you know washing the money
was an issue I mean I once my wife went
to the bank and I gave her I don't know
thousands of dollars to deposit and and
the banker said why does your money
always smell like gas so my wife Saidi
not going to the bank anymore for you
she and she didn't know I was doing
anything wrong I never discussed it with
her I never told her anything I said hey
I'm in this business I'm a wholesaler we
have a lot of cash you know you go to a
gas station they pay with cash and have
as many credit cards as they have now so
uh so it came to a point I said all
right I'll fix it and I bought a
refrigerator and I put baking soda in
the refrigerator with the cash and that
took the smell
out and she said I never seen anything
like that before I said well you know
gas nobody wants to smell gas you know I
but I made everything legitimate out of
it I never told her a thing that was
going on never did you not I always I
always think when I read stories like
this that if I was in that moment I
would live in a permanent state of fear
that I might go to jail so I'd take I
don't know a couple of million and bury
it
somewhere you're nodding is that what
you did well listen I I you know I was
resourceful in that regard but you know
your plans don't always work out the way
you want them to I'll tell you one thing
that really hurt me bad I hired a lawyer
that had just come out of the government
the prosecution's office he was as a
matter of fact he was almost on one of
my cases but he wasn't so there was no
conflict but he just came out of the
eastern district of New York which is
Brooklyn where my cases were most of
them and so I hired him and I said John
I need one thing from you I want to know
when I'm going to be arrested or locked
up or indicted on this gasoline case
this was after my pondy became a snitch
and he said I'll never forget he said
don't worry about it June of 86 that's
when it's going to happen you got time
right and this was like the middle of
85 I said great I had got married in
July of 85 right I said great I got time
I have my own plan I was moving things
around but I was figuring I had seven
eight nine months well I got indicted in
December of that year and no Bell so
they kind of derailed a lot of my plan
and strategy because I got locked up six
months earlier than I thought and so
that that was that was hurtful I can
tell you that what was your plan I was
moving a lot of money around quite
honestly moving a lot of money around at
different places and uh physical money
or yeah
yeah and money that I had put in certain
places I was taking it out and I was
putting it so I I said I I never have to
worry about anything again I'm going to
have to sit on this cash because um
another thing happened my partner and I
had a um a bank in
Austria and we were taking a federal tax
money 9 cents and we were just putting
in that banking we weren't we opened up
a bank account he had half the number it
was a numbered account he had half the
number I had half the number neither one
of us knew the other half right we just
did it I was came up that I said let's
make sure we have no temptation it was
more for him than for me right and
we had about $33 million in that
account when he became a snitch I got a
hold of his son Larry Jr his name was
Larry and I said tell your father I'll
fight him in court don't give up the
money it's our money it's for you your
mother but don't give up the money
whatever happens let's we'll worry about
the court
situation well he testifies against me
he becomes an informant goes to HBY he
never gives up the money never gives up
the account he testifies against me and
a juliani case I get acquitted jury
didn't believe him right we destroyed
him on the stand so now the government
in the eastern district the other side
in Brooklyn said you're worthless you
couldn't get a conviction on Francis
you're worthless we're throwing you out
of the program you're done he gets
scared he says wait a second you know
there's more he gives him the half of
the
number the FBI goes to Austria true
story goes to Austria and says it's
Mafia money we have half the uh the
account number we want it Austria says I
don't care what money it is you come
with the full account number or you're
not getting anything tells the FBI they
didn't care they wouldn't give it up
Austria not Switzerland Austria right so
now when I'm they I get indicted then
negotiating The Plea originally they
want to give me a $100 million fine and
25 years in prison that was what we were
negotiating so my lawyer comes to me he
says you're never going to get the money
he's got the it's done it's over it's
finished he says give me the account
number it'll help me negotiate The Plea
down I give it to him they negotiate the
plea from 25 years and 100 million down
to 10 years and 15 million with a 5
million forfeiture Clause right so he
did it did was very helpful in that
regard but we lost all that money that
was it you know it was meaningful it
wasn't all everything but it was
meaningful and and when he cooperated
they gave him back 2 and a half milon
out of that 33 million so he profited a
little bit out of it at least did you
have anything buried in the ground yes
physically buried in the ground in a
safe yes in a safe in the ground safes I
would say saf in the ground yes up until
you were
released they were there let's put it
that no because it's what any I think
anyone with a brain would do but you
just if you don't know the timing of
your well even if you didn't I think if
I was in that life i' I'd live ass ass
uming that at some point I was probably
going to have to do some time for
something so I Buri it all over the
place I I will tell you this they they
believe that I have a lot of money stash
someplace to the point where they hired
an investigator who wrote a book about
it just to go and investigate and search
and this guy went around the world to
different accounts that he thought I
might have had money in he wrote a book
about it and they couldn't identify they
couldn't find it but until today I get
plagued with that they say we know you
got it 100% we know you got it we just
wondering when you're going to go get it
um I I don't I I don't respond to silly
stuff like that you know do you think
you're being followed and
watched no no I mean I think
uh let's put it this way at any moment
you can get in the crosshairs again and
who knows but I don't think they're
worried or concerned about me at this
moment it's not to say that that
you know that could not be a concern of
theirs
again but um I don't worry about that
but you were just saying there that that
you said they are just waiting for me to
go and get it they think they're just
waiting for you to go and get oh yeah
retired agents have told me that agents
okay so not the mafia agents yeah well
the M they they absolutely think I do
there's no question that I know yeah
I've been at there's guys that have told
me that you know told you what we know
you have it when are you g to go get it
you know when they say go get it do they
mean New York no you know wherever the
money is buried or wherever the wherever
it is you know when is it going to
appear I hear that I've heard that
consistently over the years is it
buried Le let's put it this
way if it's there who knows if I'll ever
get to use it again you know but we'll
have to
see for all the businesses and
entrepreneurs out there listening you
know how challenging it can be to reach
the right people especially when it
comes to B2B marketing that's why I'm
excited to share that LinkedIn ads who
sponsor this podcast have the solution
for you in B2B you're not just doing
business with one person you're dealing
with buyer groups who are teams of
people making decisions together
LinkedIn ads allows you to reach a vast
Professional Network of over a billion
members including a 100 million decision
makers and 10 million sewe Executives
who make up these buying groups you can
precisely Target them by job title
industry company and more with LinkedIn
ads Target and measurement tools built
specifically for B2B you'll be able to
drive results and build meaningful
relationships it's no wonder LinkedIn
it's the highest returning paid social
platform to help you get started
LinkedIn ads have kindly offered a $100
credit to launch your first campaign so
go to linkedin.com doac c24 to claim
your credit that's linkedin.com doac c24
terms and conditions
apply you went to prison though and
you're in solitary confinement for a
while while you're in prison
um I can't imagine I can't imagine one
of my recurring nightmares is going to
prison I think it's just like my deepest
darkest really fear yeah it is it's
specifically going to prison for
something I didn't do is one of my like
recurring nightmares that will happen
every couple of months and it's just the
worst feeling in the world that is a
nightmare I mean to go for something you
didn't do for
sure yeah prison is uh listen it's like
anything else you got to know how to
navigate the system as best you can and
um you know my father taught me again he
said' am I going to tell you three
things that are going to help you when
you go to prison because you're going to
go one day he said three words that are
going to go a long way please thank you
excuse me and he said the reason for
that he said all these guys in prison
that never got respect on the street
they want it all in there they want to
show their people you know that they're
tough guys or whatever you bunk into
somebody excuse me you want to cut
somebody on the line go to eat whatever
said do you mind you know excuse me
please if I can come in front of you
don't ever just get in front of them you
know and somebody hands you hey thank
you thank you very much be cordial you
know and it really help because I saw
guys try to throw their weight around
John Gotti tried to throw his weight
around don't work in there guys are
doing life in prison they don't care who
you are what do they got to lose you
know um but I never had a problem never
had a problem in prison I treated people
that way and um yeah I did spend 29
months and seven days in solitary and
honestly not easy
that was
rough I saw a lot of guys did not do
well and I don't I don't demean them for
it you know lights went out sometimes
you heard a lot of things I seen a lot
of things in there guys couldn't deal
with it for extended times it's rough
it's it's I'm dead set against it for
young people I think it's a form of
torture really really hurt them
emotionally um and I'm against it you
know unless somebody's such a danger to
themsel or a danger to others you know
I'm dead set against it but I got
through it why were you sent to solitary
they were upset with me you know when uh
when I wouldn't cooperate to the level
that they wanted me to uh especially in
one big case that they tried to get me
to take the stand against a friend of
mine and I refused and uh within a few
days I was back in on a parole violation
they locked me up and sent me right to
the hole and I was in solitary the whole
time getting me just getting even with
me 29 months and seven days seven days
yeah in a row or yes it was uh I did I
did 11 months in one place and then they
moved me that took about two days and
then put me in another place and I
finished it up when you say that you had
grown men in there
breaking what do what do you mean you
know banging heads against the bars and
just just some other disgusting things
you don't want to hear I mean you
know damaging themselves you know
hurting themselves just to get out of
the hole you know I'd see guys at that
did things to themselves to get out of
to get out of the hole in jail and get
sent to the prison so they didn't have
to stay in that environment
anymore it was just it was just bad that
that's nightmare stuff it really is you
um you're quite uncomfortable talking
about it aren't
you yeah because you know it's kind of
demeaning to to and I'm not trying to
come off that way I'm not say well I was
a tough guy I was able to handle it I
was by the grace of God I was able to
handle it I had my days and my nights
where you know you say God it's one long
day it never ends you know and I mean I
lost a lot of weight in there I was down
to I'm I'm like 190 something now I was
180 166 when I got out of there because
I wouldn't eat you know the food that
they gave us I got uh uh tomain
poisoning a couple of times I said hey
give me cereal give me bananas and give
me cup of soup that's all I want to eat
I don't want to eat anything else and so
I lived on that for quite some time and
you know I don't want to make it sound
that I mean it wasn't uh you know some
of these places where you know you don't
have a toilet or anything else I mean
I'm sure there's places around the world
that a lot worse could be but it's just
the solitary it wasn't so much the
conditions you know what I mean we had a
sink we had a toilet you had your bed
with a little
mattress um so that wasn't it was just
it was just being solitary that's hard
did you did you find yourself losing
your own mind in there and whatever that
might mean
no no Steve honestly and I was pretty I
think I have a fairly strong
Constitution as something in me and
that's that's god-given you know I can't
I can't say I don't know how you don't
do you acquire something like that or
it's just who you are I don't know but
um I was able to deal with it I mean I
had my b nights in there you know and
you're just fortunately I had a Sony
Walkman music was you have no idea music
was so soothing I remember one Christmas
Eve I had just gotten off the phone with
my wife and it was devastating the whole
family was there and it was just and I
just put my Walkman on and and it just
lifted me out of there for a minute just
the music you forget stuff you know um
and you know I I got into my Bible
during that time and I was listening to
a pastor that I had had not known and
never met him his name was Greg Lori
he's Harvest Crusade huge Pastor here
now very dear friend of mine now uh but
his words were so uplifting I look
forward to listening to him every
morning he had a morning radio shows and
so things like that meant a lot and then
getting to a phone everything is about
the phone and and having uh you know
contact with your family so the thing
that worried me when my dad went away at
that time he got one three minute phone
call a
month and one visit a month One 8 hour
visit that was it so he lost touch with
the
family and him and my mother drifted
apart my sister hardly knew him you know
my he he you just can't if you're not in
touch with people it just naturally
happens so when I went away my fear was
that was going to happen to me and my
wife so I did all I wanted I told I told
you want to lock me up lock me up just
give me my phone calls and give me my
visits I don't care what you do I'll
take everything else but don't take my
phone call don't take my visit I'm not
going to do anything that will cause you
to do that so don't do it that's all I
cared about because I wanted to maintain
a relationship with my wife and she
stuck by you she did she did eight years
that I did she stuck by me and she was
young she had a great mom good Christian
mom who held her up our church at that
time Westwood Hills Christian Church
they rallied around my wife and me and
my kids we had little babies back then
um and she stood up when I went I I did
five years I was home for 13 months very
difficult 13 months it was de contract
on my life people wanted to kill me and
government was all over me to become a
witness and I had a very tough time I
violated my parole and when I went in
the feds told her you're never going to
see your husband free again again we're
inditing him on another case we violated
his parole he's done he may as well pack
it
up and she had a breakdown on me at that
point she probably couldn't see me for
about six or seven weeks she didn't come
to visit can you imagine what life would
have been like in solitary if she had
decided that it was all too much for her
I would have been bitter and and
resentful I I don't think I would have
come out of there the
same I really don't
um cuz she meant that much to me still
does but cuz I did everything for her
basically you know I mean she was the
reason why I left that life even though
I knew it was a bad
life I wouldn't have left I was so
indoctrinated Steve when I walked into
that room that night I thought I was
going to die and yet I walked into the
room wow what a hero it wasn't heroic it
was
robotic I was so much a part of that
life I had seen so much said well it's
my turn it's my turn wasn't her Rogue I
was scared out of my mind my knees were
weak my heart was stumping out of my
chest you know and I still didn't want
them to realize that I was that scared
but I was really scared which room the
room your father ton night they walked
me I told you they they walk me into
that room and I didn't know if I was
going to you know that's one of the
horrors of that life the night my dad
betrayed me you your dad you walked into
that room that night with the bosses
there and a lot of other people there
and your dad there he wasn't there oh he
was left already he had left already Yes
they they talked to us uh separately and
when they had a conversation with him
had they told him that you were going to
there was going to be a contract on you
I they didn't tell him that but they
were fishing to find out if there was a
reason for it to happen you in other
words if I believe now this is my
perception of that night there was two
reasons they walked me in one of two
number one trying to scare me to let me
know you may be making all this money
you may have this big crew that article
came out in the paper but we're the boss
you try to make a move you're going to
die that's what I think that was it was
either that
or they really believed I was doing
something wrong and they were going to
try to take over the business now again
remember one of the safeguards I never
let him meet that guy and I never L him
my crew was my crew I didn't bring them
around they were my guys
and when we fell nobody no maid guy fell
with us it was only my crew so I
protected them in that way but but in
another way I was safeguarding my
business so were they going to look for
an excuse that night to take me out very
possibly and you think your dad might
have been aware of that
yes in a way yes
because and again I've struggled with
this too okay Dad you you betrayed me
that night you threw me under the bus he
didn't say well my son did this wrong my
son did that he didn't do that he just
said I don't
know I can't tell you I don't know and
that was
damaging he didn't stand up for me how'd
you know he didn't Jimmy told
me and I approached my father two years
later he denied it I said Dad I know you
did it it was confirmed I know you did I
know what you did but it's okay I love
you it's all right I get it I understand
the life I get it what did Jimmy tell
you told me your father threw you under
the BT he didn't help you one bit it's
exact words he didn't help you one bit
he hurt you in there
tonight and you know it was
devastating have you forgiven him for
that absolutely forgave him you know
something happens to you in that in that
life you know it's it's like what's
right is wrong what's wrong is right you
justify certain things but I understood
cuz that night I mean what kind of
insanity to walk into a room when you
think you're going to get killed or you
think you might get that's your
perception whether it's real or not
that's your perception okay people say
why didn't you cut and
run
robotic okay I was so consumed by the
life
so this was me okay I'm gonna die
tonight scared of course I was scared no
I'm not ashamed of it not at all I mean
I know that door opened I almost fainted
probably I don't know I because I know a
setup you know I walk in it would have
been over quick so when that door was
going to open I I almost fainted but I
can tell you this what I believe now as
a person of faith I strongly believe
this that the way my life has turned out
now two things that bond between my dad
and me had to be broken it had to be
broken and I had to realize in my life
that I could face death if I had to
because when I walked away from that
life now I didn't know I was going to
walk away but when I walked away from
that life you know contract on my life
my boss was very upset with me he took
it very personal he was a tough guy he
was an oldtime real tough guy and he
took it very
personal you know walk away you don't
walk away from this life we're not
allowed to do that my dad disowned me
for a number of years till we patched it
up when they realized I wasn't going to
be testifying against everybody because
they thought I was okay this is what
he's going to
do I wasn't interested that they thought
I was going to go into the witness
protection program and start hurting
guys left and right that's not what I
was going to do never would have done
that not not in a chance but they didn't
know because when guys walk away that's
what they do do you think your dad loved
you I know he loved me no question I I
tell you what the problem with my dad
was his Legend in that life meant
everything to him I just can't Square
the fact that he would allow you to walk
into that room and not defend you with
the risk of you dying
and at the same time he loves you I like
to think that maybe he didn't perceive
it that way there was some other there
was some other things playing you know
this is like uh it was like it's
Shakespearean in a way my mother who I
loved very difficult woman I I can tell
you this she had her issues for whatever
reason but you know I think my mother
liked to be my father's wife for time I
mean she got a lot of attention
right when I became prominent in that
life a lot of the attention was not on
her and I think she she said some things
to my dad you know that kind of maybe
got in his head a little bit about me
maybe I hate to say this it doesn't
sound right and I don't want people to
perceive that maybe there was a little
jealousy or Envy there I don't know
Steve you know I I've never talked like
this before and I I don't like to do it
because it puts my my father in a very
bad light but sometimes you can play on
somebody's mind so much you know
especially a woman that he loved um and
I know my mother loved me too figure
this one out there's no question my
mother loved me but I can't explain what
took what what dynamic they had going on
within them I don't
know but uh maybe he there was some
resentment there a little bit even
though face to face I never experienced
that with him but then this happens in
that room I don't know I don't think if
if my dad thought I was going to get
killed that night I don't think he would
have gone through it maybe he maybe he
was in on it you know I don't know maybe
he said hey let's let's flush my son out
I don't
know I don't know and and Jimmy wouldn't
have known that the guy that drove me so
I don't know how do you how do you
square all of this because one of the
things I think all human beings love
need regardless of how tough they are is
love yeah
absolutely absolutely and
listen I I got my relationship with my
dad was never the same especially after
I walked
away uh you know when when we didn't
speak for about 10
years and then when I got out of prison
and he was on Parole and we realized he
realized I wasn't hurting
anybody he said I want to see you called
me I said okay he said I'm going to meet
you in such and such a place I said nope
I'll meet you at the house your house
not going anywhere to meet you Dad
almost a little mistrust there I'm going
to be honest you know and so I go to see
him at uh I go to his house 5:30 in the
morning CU I was on Parole had a record
at that time I didn't know if I was
allowed to see him you know another
violation he was on PE I was on PE why
did you get to his house I knew my mom
was there and I'm in his house I don't
have to worry about I wasn't going to go
anywhere where somebody else could have
been there you know and I knew my dad
wouldn't never do anything in his house
that's my feeling so I seen him was 5:30
in the morning I opened the door and
he's standing there arms folded he looks
at me and his first words to me he said
if you would have listened to me you
would have been the boss of the Columbo
family and I looked at him I said Dad
are you in the Twilight Zone or
something I said I serve a different
Master right now and he looked to me and
he said do you mean this bible stuff is
for real with you because I had turned
Christian at that point I said yeah it's
for real
he said okay let's talk and that's kind
of how we broke the ice and we spent 3
hours talking and going over a lot of
the stuff that happened and you know
some of the a anger I had in me I
expressed to him you know and some of
the things he said you know he what he
said to
me and I said him I said to him if
you're UNC I said I'm not going back in
that life I said dead you see I I wasn't
here to hurt anybody but if there's
things that you don't want to express
just don't tell me I don't want to hear
hear it I mean it was a very open hard
conversation that he and I had but it
was good cuz we came to an agreement and
terms after that you know one of the
things Steve the about you know the the
mob genre on social media is like people
talk and they say think they don't know
what really went on with me and my dad
and in our personal conversations and
all of that and you know well you know
you never want to see your dad when your
dad died you didn't go to you didn't go
to his funeral and I didn't go and I
didn't go for a reason cuz number one I
knew who else was going to be there I'm
not going to go there and be the center
of attention or maybe have something
happen at my dad's funeral if somebody
wants to make remarks for me and then
we're going to it's going to be a bad
time in there I've respected my dad
enough to do that I went to visit him
privately I didn't need to make a show
or display out of it and actually people
say to me Michael you better off not
going you know you don't who knows if
there's going to be a scene because I'd
walked away from that life other guys
might have been friends of my father
might have showed up and it could have
been confrontational I don't need to do
that I'm not looking to put up put on a
show you know so but guys make remarks
oh you didn't care about your father
they don't know they don't know what
went on personally between us none of
their business this is probably the most
open conversation I've ever had about it
publicly maybe at all I don't talk about
it what are the stories that you're
unable to tell about your time in the
mafia you don't have to tell me the
stories because you're unable to tell
them but what are the nature of those
stories that you're unable to tell cuz
you do a lot of interviews these days
you're on podc you speak
now you know I mean look it's like I
said there was a lot of guys that I knew
that were gone you know just not there
any you know I'll give you an example
was a guy that uh was around my dad then
became around me I was his captain and
and uh he got involved in a drug
deal with with somebody that was higher
up so he came to me I was at a funeral
parlor and he came to me and he told me
what happened
and I got mad I said Tony what is the
matter with you you've been around all
this how the heck did you let this
happen I said don't worry about it I'm
going to straighten it out and we were
at a funeral of a guy that got killed
and he said to me you couldn't straight
that one out Michael I said don't
compare the two situations this was
something else I said don't worry about
it I'm going to handle it he said Mike
they're not going to walk me into a room
I said it's not going to happen relax I
promise you I'll take care of you you've
been around you're a good soldier you've
been around a long time you got a lot of
respect don't worry about it you made a
stupid mistake we'll clear it I get on
my plane I go to Florida my movie was
being made down there and I go to
Florida I get off the plane one of my
guys calls me up he says mike you're not
going to believe this what he said Tony
went into a foone booth and blew his
brains out he was an old time I so
afraid he said I'm not going out
nobody's going to take me out walking me
into a room and he did it himself
so you see things like that in that life
and it it's like you know I don't know
what to say you know how are
you I'm good you know if I if your wife
is in a room over there in the Green
Room over there in another building um
if I were to ask her if I was if I were
to say what what are the type of type of
things that Michael struggles
with what would you say to
me well cuz if you ask my girlfriend
that you'd get a laundry list so
I imagine your wife would say you
know what do I struggle with in the
family you know it's funny I'm on the
street I got all this stuff going for me
in my house I'm just dad you know
sometimes I get mad my kids take
advantage of me I said I go out of my
way for all of you you don't do anything
in return you know you guys don't
appreciate anything I guess I still have
that you know I'm a pretty giving guy
Steve you know I give you everything I
can possibly give you just you don't
have to give it back to me just treat me
right respect is a lot if I feel I'm
being disrespected I don't like it even
to tell my wife sometimes she he
struggles with you know the littlest
thing he thinks it's disrespect can't
help it that's my nature you know I
don't like that I have a guy now you
know you're trying to call him up he
doesn't call you back for two three days
that's
disrespectful you know it's I don't like
stuff like that I struggle with it
because I see a lot of it around
around um you know I don't know what
else when people come to you and they
ask because you've been a speaker for
some time now mhm about two decades
almost 25 years actually 25 years what
are the key things that people approach
you to speak about based on your
experience well it's a number I mean
look everybody wants to hear the mob
story there's Intrigue with the mob
story worldwide and I never realized
that when I was in the life until I
became what I am now and all over the
world people are fascinated with more
than any other criminal group they're
fascinated with the mafia media why of
course all the great movies you know Al
Capone John Gotti bigger than life all
that stuff so there's a fascination with
this life United Kingdom you know two
tours there people they don't because
you don't have a mafia there you're
lucky in that regard but so people want
to hear that but then they want to hear
how that life has impacted me how I've
been able to get out of it and still you
know succeed in a way in their
perception I'm succeeding and um but
you'll be surprised with this Steve
whenever I open it up for a Q&A which is
awful you think you're going to hear all
the mob questions you don't you know
what it is how did your wife react with
you after being away so long how did you
patch that up how did your kids react to
you how were you able to adjust you know
did you feel you were doing the right
thing how is your struggles people and
I'm saying to myself these people might
be going through these same things in a
different way and wow I came out of a
tough situation how did I make it can
they apply it to their own lives people
are struggling you know and I see it
more and more and more if I wanted to
spend my time mentoring to people all
the time I would I would be overloaded
just from social media and emails and
texts that I get and it's it's a good
feeling don't get me wrong that people
see something in me that maybe can be
helpful to them and I pursue it as much
as I can as a matter of fact I'm
starting a platform now I think it's
come to that point you know God has put
it on my heart that maybe it's time to
you know offer these people something
more than just the conversation and so
we are starting a platform where we can
create this kind of family or Community
where not only I can be of assistance
but my team can and people can start to
you know uh help one another I think we
need that more than ever we'll link that
below if you if you are able to send me
a link to that so people can check it
out I I understand why there is Intrigue
I think a lot of people will be
intrigued because the mafia you know I
as I said to you before we start
recording I haven't watched mafia movies
I don't really know anything about the
mafia I've been enlightened today it's
quite fascinating I feel like I'm going
to go watch of the movies but the thing
that I found so compelling is just what
I can learn from it because I think
everybody that's lived a anomalous life
where they've done something different
and they've walked a different path has
something different that they've learned
that is also a fundamental truth IE
regardless of what you've done um
whatever Divergent path you've taken
you've learned a bunch of fundamental
principles of how the world Works how
people work how to navigate how to
survive um and some of those principles
are super applicable to the today life
I've learned so much about even business
the concept of having a sit down you
know we don't in business we there's not
enough cander there's not enough honesty
there's not enough Frank conversations
in that regard there's lots of emails
brainstorms this person's on annual
leave we're going to talk on blah blah
blah but there's not enough of that
frankness so those are the things that I
really wanted to understand if you've
got any more of those for me in terms of
how because you're a businessman now and
you're an entrepreneur in this season of
life and some of those principles that
you learned from the mafia days must
still be absolutely well I'll tell you
this and I'm sure this is a principle
that you follow you don't look like a
micromanager to me well I don't know a
good are you well I don't know I don't
know do you know what the honest answer
is yeah the honest answer is I think and
you can ask my team privately um
actually Jack come over
here yeah yeah yeah no because I
genuinely want to know the truth I want
to know the actual truth does your
microman no Jack you come
over oh if you got can you speak into
that mic yeah it can pick you up yeah
okay Jack 100%
honesty I think in some areas you can be
a micromanager but I think in other
areas you're not and then I think when
you need to be you
are yeah I think I think I am and I'm
not and it's and it's a real dichotomy
I.E and again this is just my opinion
well I don't know if I've got the self-
awareness for this to be accurate but
tell I okay I think that I'm obsessed
with the smallest details of a system
and I like to understand the smallest
details of a system system to some
degree and I think when I get to a point
where I realize honestly this is what it
is
that whoever's running that system can
do it way better than me MH I resign to
it and I don't I don't feel like I'm I'm
at all necessary and so this for example
with this production there's nothing I
can tell Jack about cameras right
there's zero I don't know anything about
these bloody cameras or about what he
does in postproduction you want to know
anything about it no good because
because he's because I trust him but
there are instances with other team
members or within other businesses that
I run where I don't have the trust yet
and I've always said to my team and
people don't like this but you can't
fake trust TR trust for me is evidence
so like like what how do I describe this
if I told you to believe that I was the
spaghetti monster no matter how much you
wanted to will that and I said I'm going
to give you a million dollars in cash
right now if you believe I'm the
spaghetti monster all of the evidence
you have says that I'm a human being
I've got two arms two legs so all you
could do is lie right but you wouldn't
actually believe it and I think trust is
the same like if it's evidence you do or
don't have I have so much evidence that
Jack doesn't need to be told anything
about production because he's you know
so that's kind of how my how my system
works so on one end I think a lot of my
team and I've heard them say in
interviews before that I've given them
immense freedom in certain areas and
then in other elements I think I am I
can be monarchal about detail and being
the Leeds well my motto and it's worked
for me most of the time um when I'm when
I'm really paying attention I'm older
now I used to be a little bit different
when I was younger I was more Hands-On
but I came to a conclusion early on um
you can't micromanage because when you
micromanage you're taking yourself away
from your best talent and the thing that
you can contribute to the best in your
business and um so I always said do what
I do best delegate the rest and then
hopefully you have the talent to
motivate the people and get the most out
of them so it's it's it's a double sword
double-edged sword do what you do best
mhm delegate the rest but motivate
motivate them to the point where you're
getting the most out of them that's
critical that's critical because you
can't do everything well you know that
no I know yeah you know and and and it's
um you know and I always say this too I
tell people get your personal life in
order because normally your business is
going to be a reflection of your
personal life in some way shape or form
and you can't do both you can't do one
well and do the other not good because
they're going to affect one another so
have your personal life in order be a
reflection your business will be a
reflection of your personal life and if
you can do that do what you do best
delegate the rest give your personal
life in order your business will be a
reflection to that and and you're going
to do okay I believe it Michael we have
a closing tradition on this podcast
where the last guest leaves a question
for the next guest not knowing who
they're going to be leaving it for and
the question that's been left for you is
what is one event conversation or
experience that was your aha light bulb
that influenced or changed your
life look I think the unfortunately uh
you know these are defining
moments and in the course of my life
there's been more than one but uh really
two I I'll boil it down to two one was
with my dad and during that time when he
proposed me into the life and the second
one was with the pastor of the church
that married me that I hardly
knew and when we going to get married in
that church I was with him and my wife
and for some reason and I was still a
mob guy at that point I told my wife I
said I want you to leave I want to speak
to Dr Taylor Dr myin Taylor he was and
he was he was a pastor and I sat down
with him and I said doc you don't know
my
background I said but I've done a lot of
bad things in my life was part of a
rough lifestyle my wife is telling me
you know I could be forgiven for these
things is it possible and he really
opened up to me and it was a very
inspiring conversation because I really
he such a good man I mean I got to know
and love this man he's passed on now but
he married us but
um and he was the one that filled me
with some hope that yeah well maybe
maybe I can't turn this around
because up till then I I didn't know you
know my wife was a Christian and I was
marrying her and I respected her for her
faith but I wasn't buying into it you
okay you know and my mother-in-law
strong woman of Faith but I wasn't
buying into it myself CU I said they
don't know who I am and then I had this
conversation and it planted the seeds to
say you know what maybe there is
something else maybe I can undo some of
the thing not undo them but change some
of the things changed the path of my
life had it and it was a short time
maybe half hour the most but
meaningful and that's ultimately where
your life began to change yeah you found
God yes or you found me one of the two I
don't
know what is your closing message
Michael you know it's it's a message um
hopefully of encouragement and hope you
know to people that are struggling and
facing challenges in their life and
you know you don't always be defeated by
your past and you're not always defined
by your past you can change that in many
cases not in every case but in many
cases and I think I'm an example of
that and it's been inspiring to people
and it's
extremely rewarding to me to know that
I've been able to turn it around to a
point where it's been a positive
influence on people so I like people to
know that that's that's what motivates
me to continue to speaking it's not
about you know it's about the way people
react and you see that there's hope it's
the emails the text the messages hey
you've inspired me you know you've
you've given me
hope and uh I want people to know that
you know you're not defined by your past
all the time and you can make changes in
your life I mean that's certainly one of
the very inspiring messages you leave me
with is just this idea that in all of
our Lives it's going to come in seasons
and we're able and um we have the
permission to change with the seasons we
don't have to be fixed to an identity or
to a past or to an old job title or to a
group of people we used to associate
with at any time we can make the
decision although it's not going to be
fast
to become who we always were I guess you
know I I as started this conversation
asking you who you were yeah I I kind of
suspect you were you you're the same
person you always were
fundamentally but circumstances changed
beliefs have changed your who you're
accountable has to has changed yes your
values have become refined you know and
all these things but it's at the end of
the day it's the same human being but
with a different sense sent of
principles and purpose in their life and
I look back at my life and it's the same
I haven't always been great I haven't
always done good things there were tough
Parts where I did things that I'm not
proud of and probably wouldn't say on
camera too much but um I think that's
really important I think the the best
thing for Humanity is that people have a
chance to evolve and can be forgiven and
move on and they're they're judged for
how they show up today your book is
incredibly inspiring it's also
incredibly fascinating um Mafia
democracy by yourself and the forward on
here is from Rudy Giuliani which I
thought was hilarious because I know
that he was an enemy for much of your
careers and he was trying to destroy you
give you a 100e sentence he was
instrumental in imposing some of the
laws that shut down the mafia's Heyday
as well and thank you for your honesty
because although I know it's not always
easy to recount certain memories from
certain chapters of our life in doing so
you Enlighten us to the true nature of
what it is to be a human and um the
complexities of what it is to be a human
and all the forces that are in play in
all of us at all the all of the time um
and that's inspiring but it's also
liberating um because even though we've
walked very different lives you know
there's so many similarities and so many
lessons that I've learned from you so
thank you Michael I appreciate you well
I appreciate that and I want to tell you
I'm very inspired by you you know like I
said I'm very impressed when somebody at
a young age has it together works hard
and uh and reaches the level that you've
reached at a young age I mean it's very
inspiring we need you know I hope you
continue to be uh you know an example of
somebody that can just really put their
head to the grind and make it and I've
I've read up on you and I know that's
what you've done you've created a great
great business here and just keep going
thank you Michael okay thank you got it
[Music]
oh